---
title: "Home"
draft: true
---

General presentation
==================

The UMR3525 "**Genetics of genomes**" was created in January 2012. The
unit comprises nine teams working on genomes and gene expression, with
large scale approaches applied to both prokaryotic and eukaryotic
microorganisms (model or pathogens). The list of the teams follows
(clicking on team name leads to the web sites of each laboratory on the
[Institut Pasteur](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/) research web site):

E1 – **Benoit Arcangioli** – [Dynamique du
génome](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/dynamics-of-the-genome/)

E2 – **Carmen Buchrieser** – [Biologie des Bactéries
Intracellulaires](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/biology-of-intracellular-bacteria/)

E3 – **Guy-Franck
[Richard](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/group-guy-franck-richard/)**
(précédemment Bernard Dujon – Génétique Moléculaire des Levures)

E4 – **Philippe Glaser** – [Evolution et Génomique
Bactériennes](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/group-philippe-glaser/)

E5 – **Alain Jacquier** – [Génétique des Interactions
Macromoléculaires](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/gim/)

E6 – **Romain Koszul** – [Régulation Spatiale des Fonctions
Génomiques](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/spatial-regulation-of-genomes/)

E7 – **Didier Mazel** – [Plasticité du Génome
Bactérien](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/bacterial-genome-plasticity/)

E8 – **Eduardo Pimentel Cachapuz Rocha** – [Génomique Evolutive des
Microbes](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/microbial-evolutionary-genomics/)

E9 – **Miria Ricchetti** – [Stabilité de l’ADN nucléaire et
mitochondrial](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/group-miria-ricchetti/)

The UMR teams are trying to apply the genome-wide approaches that were
developed in the last decade, and which continue to evolve at an
accelerated rate, to the study of genomes. Genomes are thus an objet of
study and the UMR3525 scientists ask several types of questions:

1.  How do genomes evolve in microorganisms ? What are the trends of
    evolution, how genes appear, decay or change ? What is the dynamics
    of this evolution ? How this evolution allows organisms to adapt to
    novel environments ? What is the role of these mechanisms in the
    adaptation of pathogens to the host ? (E2, E3, E4,E8, E9)
2.  Once new evolutionary trends and effects are discovered, we are
    interested in the molecular mechanisms that are involved. (E1, E3,
    E6, E7)
3.  How genomes are expressed, what is the role of chromosomes
    organization and localization and which is the diversity of
    non-coding RNA ? (E2, E5, E6, E7)

All theses studies depend on using statistical approaches and
bioinformatic tools. While the team of Eduardo Rocha (E8) has the major
focus on bioinformatic analyses, the other teams of the UMR have also
integrate bioinformaticians who play essential roles. The talent and
developments that occured in the UMR were recognized at the level of the
Institute and, for example, Christophe Malabat, a bioinformatics
engineer in A. Jacquier's team (E5) has recently become a co-director of
the bioinformatics hub ([C3BI center](https://c3bi.pasteur.fr/)).

Most of the UMR units are part of the [Genomes and Genetics department](https://research.pasteur.fr/en/department/genomes-genetics/).
